To train any classifier, you need labeled data.
Lots of it.
In this case,
the two classes you would like to distinguish are car and non-car images.
So you need samples of both.
If you only have full video frames available,
you need to crop out regions and scale them to a fixed size.
Ideally you want a balanced data set.
That is the number of car and non-car images should be roughly equal.
If that's not the case, you're under risk of the classifier
trying to predict everything as belonging to the majority class.
There are some techniques for handling imbalanced data sets, for
example, duplicate some samples from the smaller class to balance the counts.
For vehicle classification, if you don't have enough non-car images you could
simply extract more from video frames.
Okay, once you have a sizable data set,
you need to split it into two collections.
A training set and a test set.
As the names suggest, you will only use images from the training
set when training your classifier and
then check how it performs on unseen examples from the test set.
To avoid any possible ordering effects in the data, you should sample or
shuffle the data set randomly when splitting it for training and testing.
Even within the training and test sets, you should aim for
a balance between the number of car and non car images.
All of this preprocessing might seem like a lot of work but
machine learning logarithms work on a principle of garbage in, garbage out.
So you need to be careful about what you feed them.